Hello, hello,
you're way too far away.
Come on, if so, then I have to...
ABS, a little space at your place, there's a little space.
Yes, now it's good. Yes, how should
I say this in German?
So, welcome
to
Tagesschau, welcome to the podcast. Hey, your
podcast, then welcome to the Real Award
Podcast. Dear, what's your name again?
Okay, can you tell me what you do
on Kopangan? What I do on Kopangan?
Yes, there are always questions. So, currently I'm here. I'm here
because I
wanted to explore again. So, I was
here last year, and yes, I'm currently looking for a place where I
can finally find a kind of home base, like you do.
I'm not saying that I
want to stay there forever and never travel again
or anything like that, but I have
my stuff there. I don't always have to
change my suitcases. I just have
a closet where clothes go,
and so you understand
what I mean. And that's exactly why I'm looking around a bit right now.
And
now, since you mentioned the
home base thing, it's a huge topic
for me right now, and what I keep
hearing...  From other people, I
think you also told me that once,
yes, "h is where your heart is." I'd just be
curious how you
see it exactly, with "
heart is" and still having a home base. Doesn't that
contradict itself? For me, it doesn't contradict anything,
because my home base is more
the base for all my
materialism, but that
's not the reason why
I feel at home somewhere. It
's simply, hey, I have
my things there, I have a place there.
I don't always have to stay in
different Airbnbs. Well,
maybe I do, but I
already have my apartment or my place,
or wherever I
am, and um,
a bit of stability. So I
think it's important that we have a mix
of
holding on and letting go,
the mix between stability and
dynamism. Exactly. And you're a
coach, yes, something like that. What do you call it? Consciousness
coaching, what you do. And
you just mentioned letting go and
holding on, and I was just discussing
this topic with a friend of mine yesterday,
and we were talking about whether you become
happier when you
let go of everything, and that is...  So, there's this question
we were going through,
and I was thinking, hmm,
where does it begin and where does it end? There are
some people here on Kopangan who have really let go of everything. They don't
wash their
hair anymore, they don't brush their teeth. Do
you understand? Letting go comes
in so many facets. How do
you see it? First, it's important to
understand how the dynamics of letting go
work. There are mechanisms at
work somewhere inside us, and I think
holding on is something wonderful.
Being involved in something, clinging to it, getting entangled in it can be truly
beautiful. The
important thing is at what point
we should let go. And if our
holding on causes us suffering,
then for me, that's the point where we
should let go. And then we should
recognize the mechanics of letting go and say, "Hey, I don't need this anymore.
It doesn't serve me anymore."
Spirituality and Kopangan—you don't
need anything to be happy.
No, you don't.
You really don't. For me,
breathing is enough. You can just breathe and
think or feel better.  I said how
nice it is, breathing is enough, so yeah,
I'm just laughing because for me right now
everything is just very easy with
breathing, yeah, I'm just saying that's what
I mean, spirituality,
breathing is enough, yeah, but now you have so
much more, yeah, play, so go
out, get involved, fall in love, hold on tight,
mm, go in one direction, be
successful somewhere and follow that
dream, but I'm telling you, there will
come a point in your life where, no matter what it
is, whether it's
the wife, the house, the job,
the children, whatever, there will
come a time when you
understand, everything I've accumulated
and held onto is
n't what makes me happy, and
when life takes that away from you,
the time will come when you have to
let go or you will suffer greatly,
letting go and
holding on, I'm not saying we shouldn't hold on to
anything anymore, so, fun,
depending on the
life situation, there's always something you
should let go of, something you should
feel, whether there's something to
let go of or not,
but that's just how it is.  This
question in my head is, how do
I know? Okay, I have to let go now. Let's say I'm suffering,
I've been suffering
my whole life, I'm
simply deeply unhappy, and I've already let go of my
home, my family, my job. I've already let go of
everything, and yet I'm still unhappy. So,
why
are you unhappy? Yes, that's the question.
You should simply ask yourself this question: Are you
also
ready to let go of being unhappy? Letting
go is also based
on identities. So, we have
a mental collection; we can
accumulate all this data. From this data,
we create identities, and with that,
we entangle ourselves in what we believe to be us.
And then we have to let go of that so that
we
understand that we are none of it,
because you could be someone else right now. But
if you've taken unhappiness
and
built an identity based on it, you can, of course, let go of
everything, but you're still clinging to the unhappiness,
saying, "
No, I'm not allowed to be happy yet." Well,
then let go. That means it's
also just an identification with
unhappiness. Clearly, it's always the case that
when you're unhappy, it's
an identification with
unhappiness.  Yes, then
nothing external that
can ultimately make you unhappy. It's always
the identification with the
unhappy person. Yes, but of course, there's
nothing external that
could cause you to be permanently
unhappy. It could also
be that someone is suffering because of their
job, meaning it's their job
that they can let go of if they want to.
If they understand, "Okay, I'm only suffering in this.
I'm not happy. This doesn't fulfill
me. This isn't what
I want to do." Then you let go of it.
But if you've already tried everything,
but you've built something inside yourself
where you say, "Hey,
this version of me is unhappy
because something is missing," then that's what
we can let go of. We can
let go of the search for our
happiness. Yes, because even if
someone is unhappy because of their job and
then lets go of the job and
does something else, in most cases,
the unhappiness comes back after a
while, maybe in the other
job or through something else.
You understand? And then, yes, in the end, it's
just a switch, a quick
compensation, something like that. That's what you mean,
right? Or a distraction, "Okay, now I'm
okay."  Or maybe this whole "
being unhappy" and "
being happy" thing doesn't even exist. Maybe it's just a
state where you feel one way or the other, and
when change is needed,
you feel unhappy. Then, when
you change, you feel
happy again, and then, when
change is needed again, you feel
unhappy again. But I think if
you really feel rejected in your job, that
people don't
respect you—of course,
we can go back to that. Okay, where are
you rejecting yourself? Where are you
not respecting yourself? Because otherwise,
you'll simply take certain actions. But let's say
you consider all these
points and
you truly follow your dream. Of
course, that doesn't mean you can't be
unhappy again just
because you've now followed your dream.
But it does mean you've, um,
eliminated some of the external influences on your life. So it's much
easier for you to do your things
and be creative when you're surrounded by positive
people who
push you and have a good influence on your
life, rather than people who
already have problems and who drag you down
because they
also have their own issues.  Yes, but of
course, your
happiness—your true happiness—will never depend
on external
circumstances. What
makes people happy is
free and readily
available to everyone at any time. I was just discussing this with a
friend yesterday, and he asked himself
the same question: "Okay,
if I
let go of everything, will that guarantee me
happiness?" I
think many
people on their journey to self-discovery,
spirituality,
or happiness
ask themselves this: "Okay, if
I do X or Y, or if I do
Ayasca, or whatever, is that
the solution to happiness?"
I think that's what you
said at the beginning:
identification. Definitely,
the solution to happiness is
permanent happiness. I believe that
because you're already asking yourself this question, you ca
n't truly be happy. To ask that question,
you must have already reduced yourself to something
incomplete. Your
identity always limits the true
life you are, and
therefore, it will never be permanent
because everything you accumulate can be
taken away again.  Generally speaking,
you are happy when you are here, when
you are fully present, when you feel neither
happiness nor unhappiness.
Ultimately, it's about evaluating the
situation, whether it's unhappy
or happy. Ultimately, who says
what is unhappy and what
is happy? You understand, it's just that
if you take it even further,
ultimately, it's like this. Okay, how do
I even know that
the feeling I'm feeling now, that I'm labeling
unhappy,
is actually unhappy? Yes, sure, we
can now
look at the concepts of words, okay, what is that, what does that
actually mean? But for
me, being unhappy is
closing and oppressive energy, everything
that keeps me from harmony with the
present moment. That is suffering for me,
that is being
unhappy for me. I have
something in mind where I think if that were the case,
it would improve the present moment,
and I say you should
simply understand that the present
moment cannot be improved.
You cannot be improved. That
is then this spiritual
growth of "I have to become better,"
and I know that from myself, or
personality development is very
strong after this.  You still have to
achieve this and achieve that, but what
you are cannot be improved
because what you are is life. You are
an independent living organism.
All your cells work for you.
Your hair grows for you, your mouth
tastes for you, your ears hear for
you, your heart beats for you, your blood
flows for you through your body. Everything
works for you—the coordination of
your hands and feet, everything about it.
Everything works for you. Now
we are just with you. Now look around you. You
see all of life around you
working for you. Everything is for you. You don't have to
change anything. Everything is perfect
as it is, completely without your influence.
And now we come to the idea of
building identity into this little "I" that
thinks, "No, no, something is missing. I have to
change or improve something." Yes, because
I also believe that with
this information, which
we also receive especially in the
spiritual world, that everything
we see, we
create ourselves, and that everything we are,
we create ourselves, and everything that ultimately happens—that
we are sitting here now, that there
are microphones, and
there is a camera, and that it's
green outside—is ultimately just
my illusion. Perhaps you see
You see it completely differently, for example, someone
who's in a difficult situation
and you tell them, "Okay, they
created it themselves." Knowing that might
make things better if you stretch it out, but
ultimately it just makes it
harder because then you ask yourself, "
Okay, why would I even catapult myself into
such a situation?
Why would I
even manifest such a situation for myself?"
But that means you
have 100% control
over what happens in your life,
right? But you do have that, doesn't it? That's
the question. I
think you do have 100% control over what happens in your life. So the question is, whether I
think that or not is
irrelevant because I believe my current
thoughts and
intuition aren't very strong right now.
But I hear a lot, and I recently went to
some kind of lecture by
a Senu Sanu—I don't know who he was—and
he said that
ultimately, we constantly create
our reality because we have a
creative mind, whether we're dreaming
or not.  Ultimately,
we create this when we're awake. Yes, you create your
life, yes, yes. But you create your life
through the way you react or respond to the
circumstances that arise in your life.
If you say
you have 100% control
over your life, does that mean you
could control everything? Yes, you
can control everything, yes, yes, just
not in space and
time. I'm talking when we both—wait, when
we both talk here now—who am I
talking to? Well, probably my soul.
You must know
who I'm talking to. I don't know. So right now,
we're talking on the basis of an
identity level. If we're
talking on the basis of consciousness, then there's
a part of you, in consciousness,
that controls everything, but that
also loses the ability to want to
change or improve anything because it is
everything at once. Wait, that
was too fast. Let me repeat.
So, who am I talking to there? Who can
control everything? If we
start with consciousness, because we say, hey,
everything is consciousness, and I'm talking
to consciousness, and consciousness can
control everything, then I say,
yes, consciousness can
control everything, but I forget that it
can control everything because...  I
want to have a human experience, and when you speak, it sounds
to me like—I'm not sure—
but when you speak, it sounds to
me as if you, as
Mikaela, could control everything 100%.
And then I'd like to dispel
that illusion because you ca
n't, and if you cling to it obsessively,
you'll manifest many
fears in your life. So
that's the
question right now. I'm not even
sure what I really think or feel,
and what I've just heard from the
outside. But when I
heard it from whoever it was,
I thought, "Yeah, it
resonates with me somehow."
If you take that even further,
only you could have
created your life and everything. Why are
we here right now and not in
some country where there's a war
or something? I don't know, why did we
manifest it this way? Is it just a
coincidence that some people
are there and some people are here? Or do
you mean if there's a higher order?
Yes, somewhere. It's not just a
coincidence that things
happen the way they do. Yes, it  There is
a higher order to things, but
you will only ever gain insight into that higher order once the
situation has already occurred. This means you will
only be able to understand it when it
is already in the past. And if
you can only understand it when it
is in your past, how will you
then control it in your future?
The only thing you can control
is your reaction to the things that
happen in your life, and depending on
how conscious you are in your reaction,
that will then ensure that it has a
completely different effect on your life.
But I don't control my
entire life. And I say even
if you controlled your entire life, it would be
absolutely boring. It would be boring, it would be
super boring. Old people, we go
to old people who are in
nursing homes, and they live a very
controlled life. Every day
exactly the same thing happens. Everything is 100%
controlled. So what does manifesting mean to you?
In the end, it's having
control over what will happen.
Because if I say now,
okay, I want, um, I don't know, I
want
€100,000 or whatever, then
I manifest that. But what is
manifestation then?  Ultimately, that's about
control.
I'm not saying we don't
have abilities; we do have a
natural intelligence that many
people use against themselves.
That's manifestation. You go into a process of imagination
and write
the story that you
can already feel how it would be, and through that,
you attract it into your life because
you're already behaving the way you would
if it were true. And
then it's a completely logical
consequence. I'm not saying
we shouldn't do these things; if
you use them for yourself, that's fine,
and you have an influence on
your life. I'm not saying you're at the mercy of life
and can't do
anything about it, that you're just being pushed around
by life. But I'm telling you,
if you're too ignorant and too fixated on the idea
that you
can control everything, then you'll be
destroyed.
Yes, I think what I meant
wasn't so much about
control, but I understand the
approach. I understand what you
mean now; I'm getting closer to it somehow.
But if we
create everything that comes into our lives, then it has
little to do with control.  to do because
some things we can't
control, and yet
we still manifest them. For example, if I
suppress my emotions for years, it's most likely
not under my control at the moment I do it
because I don't even know
I'm doing it. Most
people don't even know
they're doing it, but by doing it,
they create a life with
more pain, more illness, more
whatever the trigger is—
precisely a creation of reality. And yes,
if you become aware of that, you
might call it control, but
ultimately, most people, or all of
us, aren't aware of it, not even
you, not even the most conscious
person. I don't believe they're fully aware of
everything, or that they're
aware of the consequences for
later, or what it will
create in their lives, except
maybe, I don't know, for a brief, simple weekend.
I don't know about him, he's
probably still at a different
stage, but that was my question,
and that was it. It was good that
you mentioned it because then I
thought, yes, that's an important point
because many people mix one thing up with
another. Yes, we can create what
we want in life, we don't have it
under control. Yes, yes, I think that was
well
expressed. Yes, it was a good podcast,
I'd say.
What did we talk about again
today, just to
summarize? So, the main
topic was letting go and holding on, control
over life, manifesting control over
life,
manifestation. And actually, we wanted to
talk about emotions, but maybe next time.
Maybe next time.
Thank you for coming
and gabunkaab
c